README.md, before:

# dbbench_pliops_integration
This repository contain the files and information needed to integrate pliops PSP KV and rocksdb.


Motivation
==========
This repository target is to modify the exist rocksdb repository in order to have the ability to estimate the pliops KV product,
after performing those installation steps you could run db bench tool with flag called pliops_disc, if its value will be '0' the 
tool will run with rocksdb as usual, if its value will be '1' the tool will run using pliops KV software and hardware without 
using rocksdb.


Pliops KV product description
=============================
Pliops KV is an HW accelrator that improve the performance and capacity of SSD discs, << need more info here >>



Modify files and compilation
============================
1. Clone rocks db version 6.2 (tag - origin/6.2.fb)
2. Install pliops SW deilivery package (13.6.1 or higher).
3. Go to the repoistory ubuntu library.
4. Copy the following files instead of existing files:
   A. CmakeLists.txt (to main folder)
   B. thirdparty.inc (to main folder)
   C. db_bench_tool.cc (to tools folder)
   D. Findstorelib.cmake (to cmake/modules folder
   E. delete CmakeCache.txt
5. Find the path of the following files (part of pliops delivery):
   A. store_lib_expo.h
   B. storlib.so
6. Update the following files with the paths from the previos scetion
   A. Findstorelib.cmake - need to update the location store_lib_expo.h & storelib.so
   B. db_bench_tool.cc = need to update the location of store_lib_expo.h 
7. Delete cmake cache - CmakeCache.txt
8. Run cmake (cmake .)
9. Run make (make -j )

db bench is ready !!!

10. For good performance it's recommended to follow the configuration changes that described at dbbench_performance.txt  


Supported benchmarks
====================
1. fillseq
2. overwrite
3. readRandom
4. writeSeq
5. readWhileWriting
6. readRandomWriteRandom
7. seekrandom

Pre-Defined values
==================
The following values are predefined and can be changed:
1. MAX_PLIOPS_KEY - Is used to determine the maximum size of the key supported by pliops, it's planned to be removed in future versions.
                    (default value 128B)
2. MAX_PLIOPS_READ_BUFFER - define the size of the buffer used to read objects from the DB, since we are reading objetcs in parallel,
                            setting this value to big size will overload the server DRAM. (default value - 500B)


Running examples
================
**Fill stage, no-PSP:**
sudo ./db_bench --allow_concurrent_memtable_write=0 --benchmarks=fillseq --bloom_bits=10 --bloom_locality=0 --bytes_per_sync=8338608 --cache_index_and_filter_blocks=0 --cache_size=0 --compaction_style=0 --compression_ratio=1.0 --compression_type=none --db=/media/pliops/dbbench/db/db_k16_v16384 --delete_obsolete_files_period_micros=172800000000 --disable_auto_compactions=0 --disable_wal=1 --duration=0 --histogram=1 --key_size=16 --level0_file_num_compaction_trigger=2 --level0_slowdown_writes_trigger=32 --level0_stop_writes_trigger=32 --level_compaction_dynamic_level_bytes=1 --max_background_jobs=32 --max_bytes_for_level_base=1073741824 --max_bytes_for_level_multiplier=8 --max_write_buffer_number=2 --memtablerep=vector --min_level_to_compress=-1 --min_write_buffer_number_to_merge=1 --mmap_read=0 --mmap_write=0 --num_levels=6 --optimize_filters_for_hits=1 --pin_l0_filter_and_index_blocks_in_cache=0 --rate_limit_delay_max_milliseconds=1000000 --report_bg_io_stats=1 --reverse_iterator=False --seed=0 --soft_pending_compaction_bytes_limit=0 --statistics=0 --stats_interval_seconds=10 --stats_per_interval=1 --subcompactions=1 --sync=0 --target_file_size_base=134217728 --target_file_size_multiplier=1 --threads=1 --use_adaptive_mutex=0 --use_direct_reads=0 --use_existing_db=0 --use_fsync=0 --verify_checksum=1 --wal_dir=/media/pliops/dbbench/wal/db_k16_v16384 --write_buffer_size=134217728  --num=650000000 --value_size=1024 --block_size=16384  _--pliops_disk=0_

**Overwrite, no-PSP:**
sudo /home/pliops/workspace/rocksdb//db_bench --benchmarks=overwrite --bloom_bits=10 --bloom_locality=0 --bytes_per_sync=8338608 --cache_index_and_filter_blocks=0 --cache_size=0 --compaction_style=0 --compression_ratio=1.0 --compression_type=none --db=/media/pliops/dbbench/db/db_k16_v16384 --delete_obsolete_files_period_micros=172800000000 --disable_auto_compactions=0 --disable_wal=0 --duration=7200 --histogram=1 --key_size=16 --level0_file_num_compaction_trigger=2 --level0_slowdown_writes_trigger=32 --level0_stop_writes_trigger=32 --level_compaction_dynamic_level_bytes=1 --max_background_jobs=32 --max_bytes_for_level_base=1073741824 --max_bytes_for_level_multiplier=8 --max_write_buffer_number=2 --memtablerep=skip_list --min_level_to_compress=-1 --min_write_buffer_number_to_merge=1 --mmap_read=0 --mmap_write=0 --num_levels=6 --optimize_filters_for_hits=1 --pin_l0_filter_and_index_blocks_in_cache=0 --rate_limit_delay_max_milliseconds=1000000 --report_bg_io_stats=1 --reverse_iterator=False --seed=1 --soft_pending_compaction_bytes_limit=0 --statistics=0 --stats_interval_seconds=10 --stats_per_interval=1 --subcompactions=1 --sync=0 --target_file_size_base=134217728 --target_file_size_multiplier=1 --threads=1 --use_adaptive_mutex=0 --use_direct_reads=0 --use_existing_db=1 --use_fsync=0 --verify_checksum=1 --wal_dir=/media/pliops/dbbench/wal/db_k16_v16384 --write_buffer_size=134217728 --num=650000000 --value_size=1024 --block_size=16384 _--pliops_disk=0 _

**Fill stage, PSP:**
sudo ./db_bench --allow_concurrent_memtable_write=0 --benchmarks=fillseq --bloom_bits=10 --bloom_locality=0 --bytes_per_sync=8338608 --cache_index_and_filter_blocks=0 --cache_size=0 --compaction_style=0 --compression_ratio=1.0 --compression_type=none --db=/media/pliops/dbbench/db/db_k16_v16384 --delete_obsolete_files_period_micros=172800000000 --disable_auto_compactions=0 --disable_wal=1 --duration=0 --histogram=1 --key_size=16 --level0_file_num_compaction_trigger=2 --level0_slowdown_writes_trigger=32 --level0_stop_writes_trigger=32 --level_compaction_dynamic_level_bytes=1 --max_background_jobs=32 --max_bytes_for_level_base=1073741824 --max_bytes_for_level_multiplier=8 --max_write_buffer_number=2 --memtablerep=vector --min_level_to_compress=-1 --min_write_buffer_number_to_merge=1 --mmap_read=0 --mmap_write=0 --num_levels=6 --optimize_filters_for_hits=1 --pin_l0_filter_and_index_blocks_in_cache=0 --rate_limit_delay_max_milliseconds=1000000 --report_bg_io_stats=1 --reverse_iterator=False --seed=0 --soft_pending_compaction_bytes_limit=0 --statistics=0 --stats_interval_seconds=10 --stats_per_interval=1 --subcompactions=1 --sync=0 --target_file_size_base=134217728 --target_file_size_multiplier=1 --threads=1 --use_adaptive_mutex=0 --use_direct_reads=0 --use_existing_db=0 --use_fsync=0 --verify_checksum=1 --wal_dir=/media/pliops/dbbench/wal/db_k16_v16384 --write_buffer_size=134217728  --num=650000000 --value_size=1024 --block_size=16384  _--pliops_disk=1_ 

**Overwrite, PSP:**
sudo ./db_bench --benchmarks=overwrite --bloom_bits=10 --bloom_locality=0 --bytes_per_sync=8338608 --cache_index_and_filter_blocks=0 --cache_size=0 --compaction_style=0 --compression_ratio=1.0 --compression_type=none --db=/media/pliops/dbbench/db/db_k16_v16384 --delete_obsolete_files_period_micros=172800000000 --disable_auto_compactions=0 --disable_wal=0 --duration=7200 --histogram=1 --key_size=16 --level0_file_num_compaction_trigger=2 --level0_slowdown_writes_trigger=32 --level0_stop_writes_trigger=32 --level_compaction_dynamic_level_bytes=1 --max_background_jobs=32 --max_bytes_for_level_base=1073741824 --max_bytes_for_level_multiplier=8 --max_write_buffer_number=2 --memtablerep=skip_list --min_level_to_compress=-1 --min_write_buffer_number_to_merge=1 --mmap_read=0 --mmap_write=0 --num_levels=6 --optimize_filters_for_hits=1 --pin_l0_filter_and_index_blocks_in_cache=0 --rate_limit_delay_max_milliseconds=1000000 --report_bg_io_stats=1 --reverse_iterator=False --seed=1 --soft_pending_compaction_bytes_limit=0 --statistics=0 --stats_interval_seconds=10 --stats_per_interval=1 --subcompactions=1 --sync=0 --target_file_size_base=134217728 --target_file_size_multiplier=1 --threads=1 --use_adaptive_mutex=0 --use_direct_reads=0 --use_existing_db=1 --use_fsync=0 --verify_checksum=1 --wal_dir=/media/pliops/dbbench/wal/db_k16_v16384 --write_buffer_size=134217728 --num=650000000 --value_size=1024 --block_size=16384 _--pliops_disk=1_

Commit message:

1. Cancelled the seperation between ubuntu and centos 2. Added instruction for gflags failures

README.md, after:

# dbbench_pliops_integration
This repository contain the files and information needed to integrate pliops PSP KV and rocksdb.


Motivation
==========
This repository target is to modify the exist rocksdb repository in order to have the ability to estimate the pliops KV product,
after performing those installation steps you could run db bench tool with flag called pliops_disc, if its value will be '0' the 
tool will run with rocksdb as usual, if its value will be '1' the tool will run using pliops KV software and hardware without 
using rocksdb.


Pliops KV product description
=============================
Pliops KV is an HW accelrator that improve the performance and capacity of SSD discs, << need more info here >>



Modify files and compilation
============================
1. Clone rocks db version 6.2 (tag - origin/6.2.fb)
2. Install pliops SW deilivery package (13.6.1 or higher).
3. Go to the repoistory ubuntu library.
4. Copy the following files instead of existing files:
   A. CmakeLists.txt (to main folder)
   B. thirdparty.inc (to main folder)
   C. db_bench_tool.cc (to tools folder)
   D. Findstorelib.cmake (to cmake/modules folder
   E. delete CmakeCache.txt
5. Find the path of the following files (part of pliops delivery):
   A. store_lib_expo.h
   B. storlib.so
6. Update the following files with the paths from the previos scetion
   A. Findstorelib.cmake - need to update the location store_lib_expo.h & storelib.so
   B. db_bench_tool.cc = need to update the location of store_lib_expo.h 
7. Delete cmake cache - CmakeCache.txt
8. Run cmake (cmake .)
9. Run make (make -j )

db bench is ready !!!


Known issues
===========
1. On Ubuntu machine you could have issues with the number of open files, it can cause downgrade of perofrmance or erros during run,
for more details and solution it's recomended to track the instruction at increase_number_of_open_files.txt

2. If there are linkage error related to gflags during cmake, please track the instruction at install_shared_gflags.txt  


Supported benchmarks
====================
1. fillseq
2. overwrite
3. readRandom
4. writeSeq
5. readWhileWriting
6. readRandomWriteRandom
7. seekrandom

Pre-Defined values
==================
The following values are predefined and can be changed:
1. MAX_PLIOPS_KEY - Is used to determine the maximum size of the key supported by pliops, it's planned to be removed in future versions.
                    (default value 128B)
2. MAX_PLIOPS_READ_BUFFER - define the size of the buffer used to read objects from the DB, since we are reading objetcs in parallel,
                            setting this value to big size will overload the server DRAM. (default value - 500B)


Running examples
================
**Fill stage, no-PSP:**
sudo ./db_bench --allow_concurrent_memtable_write=0 --benchmarks=fillseq --bloom_bits=10 --bloom_locality=0 --bytes_per_sync=8338608 --cache_index_and_filter_blocks=0 --cache_size=0 --compaction_style=0 --compression_ratio=1.0 --compression_type=none --db=/media/pliops/dbbench/db/db_k16_v16384 --delete_obsolete_files_period_micros=172800000000 --disable_auto_compactions=0 --disable_wal=1 --duration=0 --histogram=1 --key_size=16 --level0_file_num_compaction_trigger=2 --level0_slowdown_writes_trigger=32 --level0_stop_writes_trigger=32 --level_compaction_dynamic_level_bytes=1 --max_background_jobs=32 --max_bytes_for_level_base=1073741824 --max_bytes_for_level_multiplier=8 --max_write_buffer_number=2 --memtablerep=vector --min_level_to_compress=-1 --min_write_buffer_number_to_merge=1 --mmap_read=0 --mmap_write=0 --num_levels=6 --optimize_filters_for_hits=1 --pin_l0_filter_and_index_blocks_in_cache=0 --rate_limit_delay_max_milliseconds=1000000 --report_bg_io_stats=1 --reverse_iterator=False --seed=0 --soft_pending_compaction_bytes_limit=0 --statistics=0 --stats_interval_seconds=10 --stats_per_interval=1 --subcompactions=1 --sync=0 --target_file_size_base=134217728 --target_file_size_multiplier=1 --threads=1 --use_adaptive_mutex=0 --use_direct_reads=0 --use_existing_db=0 --use_fsync=0 --verify_checksum=1 --wal_dir=/media/pliops/dbbench/wal/db_k16_v16384 --write_buffer_size=134217728  --num=650000000 --value_size=1024 --block_size=16384  _--pliops_disk=0_

**Overwrite, no-PSP:**
sudo /home/pliops/workspace/rocksdb//db_bench --benchmarks=overwrite --bloom_bits=10 --bloom_locality=0 --bytes_per_sync=8338608 --cache_index_and_filter_blocks=0 --cache_size=0 --compaction_style=0 --compression_ratio=1.0 --compression_type=none --db=/media/pliops/dbbench/db/db_k16_v16384 --delete_obsolete_files_period_micros=172800000000 --disable_auto_compactions=0 --disable_wal=0 --duration=7200 --histogram=1 --key_size=16 --level0_file_num_compaction_trigger=2 --level0_slowdown_writes_trigger=32 --level0_stop_writes_trigger=32 --level_compaction_dynamic_level_bytes=1 --max_background_jobs=32 --max_bytes_for_level_base=1073741824 --max_bytes_for_level_multiplier=8 --max_write_buffer_number=2 --memtablerep=skip_list --min_level_to_compress=-1 --min_write_buffer_number_to_merge=1 --mmap_read=0 --mmap_write=0 --num_levels=6 --optimize_filters_for_hits=1 --pin_l0_filter_and_index_blocks_in_cache=0 --rate_limit_delay_max_milliseconds=1000000 --report_bg_io_stats=1 --reverse_iterator=False --seed=1 --soft_pending_compaction_bytes_limit=0 --statistics=0 --stats_interval_seconds=10 --stats_per_interval=1 --subcompactions=1 --sync=0 --target_file_size_base=134217728 --target_file_size_multiplier=1 --threads=1 --use_adaptive_mutex=0 --use_direct_reads=0 --use_existing_db=1 --use_fsync=0 --verify_checksum=1 --wal_dir=/media/pliops/dbbench/wal/db_k16_v16384 --write_buffer_size=134217728 --num=650000000 --value_size=1024 --block_size=16384 _--pliops_disk=0 _

**Fill stage, PSP:**
sudo ./db_bench --allow_concurrent_memtable_write=0 --benchmarks=fillseq --bloom_bits=10 --bloom_locality=0 --bytes_per_sync=8338608 --cache_index_and_filter_blocks=0 --cache_size=0 --compaction_style=0 --compression_ratio=1.0 --compression_type=none --db=/media/pliops/dbbench/db/db_k16_v16384 --delete_obsolete_files_period_micros=172800000000 --disable_auto_compactions=0 --disable_wal=1 --duration=0 --histogram=1 --key_size=16 --level0_file_num_compaction_trigger=2 --level0_slowdown_writes_trigger=32 --level0_stop_writes_trigger=32 --level_compaction_dynamic_level_bytes=1 --max_background_jobs=32 --max_bytes_for_level_base=1073741824 --max_bytes_for_level_multiplier=8 --max_write_buffer_number=2 --memtablerep=vector --min_level_to_compress=-1 --min_write_buffer_number_to_merge=1 --mmap_read=0 --mmap_write=0 --num_levels=6 --optimize_filters_for_hits=1 --pin_l0_filter_and_index_blocks_in_cache=0 --rate_limit_delay_max_milliseconds=1000000 --report_bg_io_stats=1 --reverse_iterator=False --seed=0 --soft_pending_compaction_bytes_limit=0 --statistics=0 --stats_interval_seconds=10 --stats_per_interval=1 --subcompactions=1 --sync=0 --target_file_size_base=134217728 --target_file_size_multiplier=1 --threads=1 --use_adaptive_mutex=0 --use_direct_reads=0 --use_existing_db=0 --use_fsync=0 --verify_checksum=1 --wal_dir=/media/pliops/dbbench/wal/db_k16_v16384 --write_buffer_size=134217728  --num=650000000 --value_size=1024 --block_size=16384  _--pliops_disk=1_ 

**Overwrite, PSP:**
sudo ./db_bench --benchmarks=overwrite --bloom_bits=10 --bloom_locality=0 --bytes_per_sync=8338608 --cache_index_and_filter_blocks=0 --cache_size=0 --compaction_style=0 --compression_ratio=1.0 --compression_type=none --db=/media/pliops/dbbench/db/db_k16_v16384 --delete_obsolete_files_period_micros=172800000000 --disable_auto_compactions=0 --disable_wal=0 --duration=7200 --histogram=1 --key_size=16 --level0_file_num_compaction_trigger=2 --level0_slowdown_writes_trigger=32 --level0_stop_writes_trigger=32 --level_compaction_dynamic_level_bytes=1 --max_background_jobs=32 --max_bytes_for_level_base=1073741824 --max_bytes_for_level_multiplier=8 --max_write_buffer_number=2 --memtablerep=skip_list --min_level_to_compress=-1 --min_write_buffer_number_to_merge=1 --mmap_read=0 --mmap_write=0 --num_levels=6 --optimize_filters_for_hits=1 --pin_l0_filter_and_index_blocks_in_cache=0 --rate_limit_delay_max_milliseconds=1000000 --report_bg_io_stats=1 --reverse_iterator=False --seed=1 --soft_pending_compaction_bytes_limit=0 --statistics=0 --stats_interval_seconds=10 --stats_per_interval=1 --subcompactions=1 --sync=0 --target_file_size_base=134217728 --target_file_size_multiplier=1 --threads=1 --use_adaptive_mutex=0 --use_direct_reads=0 --use_existing_db=1 --use_fsync=0 --verify_checksum=1 --wal_dir=/media/pliops/dbbench/wal/db_k16_v16384 --write_buffer_size=134217728 --num=650000000 --value_size=1024 --block_size=16384 _--pliops_disk=1_
